[DOCS] will/docs/how_to/Store Expectations on Google Cloud Store (#1632)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/how_to_guides/configuring_metadata_stores/how_to_configure_an_expectation_store_in_gcs.rst

.. _how_to_guides__configuring_metadata_stores__how_to_configure_an_expectation_store_in_gcs:

> How to configure an Expectation store in GCS

Author: I know that we have GCS everywhere (including references in code), but Google seems to want to call it Google Cloud Platform (GCP). Should I keep things as they stand now? (as GCS)

Reviewer: GCS is a specific offering within GCP: https://cloud.google.com/storage Roughly speaking, GCS is to GCP as S3 is to AWS.

============================================

> By default, newly profiled Expectations are stored in JSON format in the ``expectations/`` subdirectory of your ``great_expectations/`` folder.  This guide will help you configure Great Expectations to store them in a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, newly profiled Expectations are stored in JSON format in the ``expectations/`` subdirectory of your ``great_expectations/`` folder.  This guide will help you configure Great Expectations to store them in a Google Cloud Storage (GCS) bucket.
```

.. admonition:: Prerequisites: This how-to guide assumes that you have already:

    - Configured a :ref:`Data Context <tutorials__getting_started__initialize_a_data_context>`.
    - Configured an :ref:`Expectations Suite <tutorials__getting_started__create_your_first_expectations>`.
    - Configured a GCP `service account <https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts>`_ with credentials that can access the appropriate GCP resources, which include Storage Objects.

>     - Identified the GCP project, bucket, and prefix where Expectations will be stored.

Reviewer: "GCP project, and GCS bucket, and prefix" ? I'm not familiar enough with the project abstraction in GCP.

Author: You're right, it's GCP project, GCS bucket and prefix

> 1. **Configure local environment with appropriate authentication credentials to connect to the** `Google Cloud API <https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started>`_ **where Expectations will be stored**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Configure your GCP credentials**

    Configure your environment with appropriate authentication credentials to connect to the `Google Cloud API <https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started>`_ where Expectations will be stored. This will typically look something like this:
    
    ...
    
```

I'd suggest 1. creating a short header and pulling the longer sentence into an indented paragraph, and 2. giving a bit more info on how to configure GCP creds. As currently written, it's not completely clear that following the link will give good instructions for configuring creds.

Author: Thanks for suggesting adding these details. I've included it in my most recent commit

    In our case, the name is set to ``expectations_GCP_store``, but it can be any name you like.  We also need to make some changes to the ``store_backend`` settings.  The ``class_name`` will be set to ``TupleGCSStoreBackend``, ``project`` will be set to the GCP project, ``bucket`` will be set to the address of your GCP bucket, and ``prefix`` will be set to the folder where Expectation files will be located.

.. warning::

    If you are also storing :ref:`Validations in GCP, <how_to_guides__configuring_metadata_stores__how_to_configure_a_validation_result_store_in_gcs>` please ensure that the ``prefix`` values are disjoint and one is not a substring of the other.

    .. code-block:: yaml

        expectations_store_name: expectations_GCP_store
        stores:
            expectations_GCP_store:
                class_name: ExpectationsStore
                store_backend:
                    class_name: TupleGCSStoreBackend
                    project: '<your_GCP_project_name>'
                    bucket: '<your_GCP_bucket_name>'
                    prefix: '<your_GCP_folder_name>'

4. **Copy existing Expectation JSON files to the GCP bucket**. (This step is optional).

>     One way to copy Expectations into GCP is by using the `gsutil cp` command, which is part of the Google Cloud SDK. The command will copy one Expectation, ``exp1`` from a local folder to the GCP bucket.   Information on other options, like the Cloud Storage browser in the Google Cloud Console, can be found in the `Documentation for Google Cloud <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/uploading-objects>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    One way to copy Expectations into GCP is by using the ``gsutil cp`` command, which is part of the Google Cloud SDK. The command will copy one Expectation, ``exp1`` from a local folder to the GCP bucket.   Information on other options, like the Cloud Storage browser in the Google Cloud Console, can be found in the `Documentation for Google Cloud <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/uploading-objects>`_.
```

    .. code-block:: bash

        gsutil cp exp1.json gs://'<your_GCP_bucket_name>'/'<your_GCP_folder_name>'

        Operation completed over 1 objects/58.8 KiB.

5. **Confirm that the new Expectations store has been added by running** ``great_expectations store list``.

>     Notice the output contains two Expectation stores: the original ``expectations_store`` on the local filesystem and the ``expectations_GCP_store`` we just configured.  This is ok, since Great Expectations will look for Expectations in GCP as long as we set the ``expectations_name`` variable to ``expectations_GCP_store``.

Reviewer: Should we tell users that it's okay to delete the config for the older store?

Author: added this :)

    .. code-block:: bash

        great_expectations store list

        - name: expectations_store
        class_name: ExpectationsStore
        store_backend:
            class_name: TupleFilesystemStoreBackend
            base_directory: expectations/

        - name: expectations_GCP_store
        class_name: ExpectationsStore
        store_backend:
            class_name: TupleGCSStoreBackend
            project: '<your_GCP_project_name>'
            bucket: '<your_GCP_bucket_name>'
            prefix: '<your_GCP_folder_name>'

6. **Confirm that Expectations can be accessed from GCP by running** ``great_expectations suite list``.

    If you followed Step 4, The output should include the Expectation we copied to GCP: ``exp1``.  If you did not copy Expectations to the new Store, you will see a message saying no expectations were found.

    .. code-block:: bash

        great_expectations suite list

        1 Expectation Suite found:
         - exp1

Additional resources
--------------------

> If it would be useful to you, please comment with a +1 and feel free to add any suggestions or questions below.

Reviewer: This sentence won't really make sense once the guide is no longer a stub.

Author: good point. thanks

.. _how_to_guides__configuring_metadata_stores__how_to_configure_an_expectation_store_in_gcs:

How to configure an Expectation store in GCS
============================================

By default, newly profiled Expectations are stored in JSON format in the ``expectations/`` subdirectory of your ``great_expectations/`` folder.  This guide will help you configure Great Expectations to store them in a Google Cloud Storage (GCS) bucket.

.. admonition:: Prerequisites: This how-to guide assumes that you have already:

    - Configured a :ref:`Data Context <tutorials__getting_started__initialize_a_data_context>`.
    - Configured an :ref:`Expectations Suite <tutorials__getting_started__create_your_first_expectations>`.
    - Configured a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) `service account <https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts>`_ with credentials that can access the appropriate GCP resources, which include Storage Objects.
    - Identified the GCP project, GCS bucket, and prefix where Expectations will be stored.

1. **Configure your GCP credentials**

>     Check that your environment is configured with the appropriate authentication credentials needed to connect to the GCS bucket where Expectations will be stored.

Reviewer: ❤️

Author: ❤️
